There are few more issues that come up
in spelling correction that we want to
include in any kind of
state-of-the-art system.
One is HCI issues,
Human-Computer Interaction issues.
So if we're very confident in correction
for example, we might want to autocorrect.
And so, that happens very often as I
talked about earlier Wiwth the example hte
which is the the common
misspelling of the.
And for slightly less confident,
we might want to give a single best
correction at,
to the user to say yes or no too.
And if even less confident,
we might want to give our whole list and
want to pick in this list.
And if we're just unconfident at all, but
we're pretty sure we saw an error,
we just don't know how to fix it,
then we might just flag what does
the user type doesn't error.
So various things again depending
on our application, and
depending on the probability and the
confidence value that we might generate.
In practice, for
almost all noisy channel models.
Even though we've defined the model
as multiplying a prior and
a likelihood, and an error model.
In practice these two probabilities
are computed from making a lot of
different independence assumptions
about how many errors there were.
And the fact that the spelling is
independent of neighboring words and
these are really not true.
And the result of these incorrect
independence assumptions
means that these two probabilities
are often not commensurate.
So we do in fact, instead of just
multiplying these two we weight them and
the way, since we're multiplying
probabilities we weight them.
By raising one of them to a power,
we can't obviously multiply
one of them by something.
So we weight them by raising one
of them to the power lambda and
we learn this lambda from
some development test set.
We pick whatever lambda to raise
the language [INAUDIBLE] probability to
such that the product is
more likely to pick out
just those errors that really are errors.
And we use this weighting
of the noisy channel model
in almost any application that we
see of the noisy channel model.
Something else that's used in the state
of the art systems, is to use not just
the spelling, but the pronunciation
of the word to help us find errors.
So the metaphone system
which is used in GNU aspell.
Instead of just asking for
candidates that have a similar spelling,
ask for candidates that have
a similar pronunciation.
And that's done by first converting
the misspelling to a pronunciation and
the metaphone is a simplified.
Pronunciation system,
a set of rules that convert a word into
something approximating a pronunciation.
And here's the kind of rules that get
used, drop duplicate adjacent letters
except for c, if the word begins with
kn or gn drop that first letter.
Drop B if it's after M and
if it's at the end of the word and so
on so
these are dropping various silent letters.
And various rules like this convert
the misspelling into a kind of
representation of the pronunciation,
has a single vowel at the beginning and
then a set of consonants.
And then we find whose words
pronunciations is nearby the misspellings
pronunciations we've converted all other
words into the Metaphone pronunciations,
find similar words.
And now, we score the words by some
combination of two edit distances.
How likely is the candidate to be
orthographically changing the misspelling,
so they'll use some kind of
channel model like thing.
And the same thing with the pronunciation.
How likely is the misspelling to
be pronounced like the candidate?
So a metaphone system
doesn't use a language model
By use of pronunciation based kind of
channel model, and you can imagine
also combining a pronunciation based
model with a noisy channel model.
Again, modern models of
the channel in the last decade or
so allow a number of kind of
improvements like this so
incorporating a pronunciation component
into the channel model is one.
And we might also want to allow richer
edits, so not just single letter edits,
but kind of edits like a ph
being incorrectly typed as an f.
Or very common error it's not that all
e's are mistakenly typed as a's, but
that the sequence e n t is very
likely to be mistyped as a n t.
So couple different improvements that
a state of the art system might have
in the channel model.
And in fact, we consider a very large
number of factors that could influence
the probability of a misspelling
giving the word the channel model.
So we've talked about the source letter or
the target letter, and we've talked about
maybe one surrounding letter, but
we can look at more surrounding letters.
Or we can look at the position the word.
Maybe some errors happen
in the middle of the word.
Some happen at the end.
We might explicitly model the keyboard and
talk about nearby keys on the keyboard or
homology.
We're likely to mistype
a word with our left hand.
Third finger by using our
right hand third finger,
so a key which on the same finger on
the alternate hand is homologous.
Or again, we might use pronunciations,
we might use these
likely morpheme transformations that
we talked about on the last slide.
Lots of possible factors that could
influence this channel model.
There's a picture of one of them,
the keyboard, so again,
we might want to say that R and
W are likely
mistypings for E, and so on if we're
on some kind of a thumb keyboard.
So combining all these
different factors is often done
with a classifier base model.
So the classifier base
model is an alternative way
of doing real word spelling correction.
And here instead of just two models,
a channel model and
a language model you might take those
two and a number of other models, and
combine them in a big classifier.
Wel, l talk about classifiers
in the next lecture.
So for example if we had
a specific pair like whether and
weather commonly confused.
The real-word confusions,
we might look at features like,
well, is the word cloudy
in a window of +- 10 words,
or am I followed by the word to and
then some verb?
So if the word cloudy is nearby me,
I'm probably the word weather.
If I'm followed by two VERB,
I'm probably the word whether.
So, whether to go, whether to say,
whether to do is probably this whether.
Similarly, if I'm followed by or
not, then I'm probably this whether.
So each of these features Plus
the language model, plus the channel model
could be combined into one classifier
that could make a decision.
And we might build separate classifiers
for each possible likely pair of words.
So in summary real word spelling
correction can be done with the same noisy
channel algorithm that used for
non-word spelling correction.
But we can also use a classifier
based approach where
we combine a lot of features and
build classifiers for very frequent kinds
of errors we like to model explicitly.